we begin in Gaza where the Israeli Army
has launched a new attack on the strip's
largest medical complex there are
reports of deaths and injuries inside
alifa
Hospital gaza's health Ministry says
Israeli troops have launched missiles
and opened fire on one of the buildings
it says thousands of displaced
Palestinians patients and medical staff
are trapped inside several people have
been
arrested
we're now besieged inside alifa Hospital
we're being heavily shot at the
occupation forces suddenly raided the
hospital as you can hear now there are
intense clashes going on we're hearing
sounds coming from the gate there is
shrapnel falling all over the hospital's
Courtyard a statement from gaza's Health
Ministry says it holds the Israeli
occupation responsible for the lives of
medical staff patients and displaced
people inside the medical complex and
that the Israeli oper ation is a
flagrant violation of international
humanitarian law the health Ministry
accuses Israel of using fabricated
narratives to deceive the world and
justify the storming of alifa so in a
few moments we'll be speaking to villain
Marx in occupied East Jerusalem to find
out what Israel has been saying about
the attack first though let's go to hany
Mahmud who's live for us in Rafa that's
in southern Gaza honey what's the very
latest that you're learning on what's
going on inside Al shifa right
now
yes sir well just within the past 45
minutes we looked at what looks like a
leaflet dropped by the Israeli military
sharply ordering people in a shifa
hospital its vicinity and the entire
residential block surrounding uh the
shifa Health Complex ordering them
sharply to evacuate a May immediately to
Al maasi evacuation Zone that's the
western part of Kan Yunis City now it's
important to point out in an earlier uh
uh statement hagari the spokesperson of
the isra military said there are no
evacuations needed for people so people
do not have to evacuate and right now we
seeing this a a sharp statement ordering
people to evacuate just shows the
contradiction the the vagueness as well
as the the the misleading Narrative of
evacuation Zone people are now in caught
in between this right now whether to
leave and uh to trust the statement or
stay where the at we're talking about
thousand of Palestinians who have been
Sheltering inside the complex uh since
the beginning of the war and it's
important to point out this is not the
first time a Shiva hospital is being
stormed in a late in early December this
really
military uh made a list of allegations
and Stor shifa Hospital destroyed the
vast majority of its property and
severely damaged major buildings and
medical equipments inside uh the
hospital arrested large number field
close to 150 people were arrested inside
the hospital one more time we're seeing
the same patterns but this time it
happens and there a group of uh a group
it started at about 2:30 in the morning
where a group of Special Forces uh
entered a shifa hospital disguised in
civilian uh garments and after that a
military uh vehicles and tanks under
heavy coverage of attack drones and and
surveillance in drones and the military
Choppers surrounded the the complex and
start firing heavily at the uh at the
the complex and the surrounding area
with there were fired that caught in
some of the buildings caught in fire at
the vicinity of a shifa hospital there
reports of at least 80 people have been
arrested mostly women and young men
right now have been arrested uh from a
shifa hospital there reports of more
death and injuries inside the hospital
we don't have a confirmation number of
how many people have been killed inside
but the reports talk about many of them
are in the courtyard or inside the
buildings of the hospital right now hany
give us a sense of who and maybe how
many if you can who was in the hospital
when this military operation
began well so far what we know the the
hospital has turned into an evacuation
Center where we're looking at hundreds
of of this place families from the
northern part Gaza City and and the
eastern part of the Gaza City the the
the Shay neighborhoods they two
neighborhood after they were stormed
repeatedly and invaded by the Israeli
forces on the ground the all ran to a
shifa hospital and took it as a shelter
now the statement made by the Israeli
military it made a list of allegations
and the primary among them is based on
intelligence from the ground that they
had inside information of the operatives
or militants inside the hospital now
this is a reminder of what happened in
in in early December the same exact list
of allegations and eventually what
happened there were only a couple of
videos that were released by the Israeli
military about uh the shifa hospital
none of the uh allegations was supported
with any substantial evidence we see
this happening
again overnight and early hours of this
morning there is no uh confirmation of
who were the people who were arrested
there talks about the 80 people but
based on eyewitness inside the hospital
mostly women and young men who were
arrested from the the
hospital Al is honey Mahmud thank you
very much for that report honey I'll go
now to villain Marx who is live in
occupied East Jerusalem villm what is
the Israeli military saying about this
operation they are calling it a precise
operation one that's predicated on the
the presence of Hamas Fighters inside
the hospital compound they've confirmed
to me in the last few minutes they have
made arrests and in terms of the
reasoning behind this operation here's
what the spokesperson for the Israeli
military rear Admiral Daniel hagari said
earlier our targeted Mission isn't just
in operational necessity it's a global
imperative our forces have undergone
specify training to prepare them for the
sensitive environment and complex
scenarios they may
encounter our war is against Hamas not
against the people of Gaza we seek no
harm to the civilians that Hamas is
hiding
behind now villm it it's quite notable
that the the Israelis don't always
choose to comment uh in a detailed way
on ongoing operations how unusual is
what we just heard for the Israelis to
discuss this ongoing operation in such
detail
we've seen repeatedly over the last five
months SEL when Israeli forces have
operated in and around Hospital
compounds has created a huge amount of
blowback for them both inside Gaza but
also internationally the fact they're
releasing statements in the middle of
the night as these operations are
ongoing in the light of the fact that
there are social media videos being
posted by those inside the hospital
complex an indication that they're aware
of how can contentious these kinds of
activities are don't forget the medical
facilities hold a special status under
international law it's part of their
statement s interestingly they talked
about the fact that Israeli troops had
been instructed on the importance of
quote operating cautiously as well as on
the measures to be taken to avoid harm
to the patients civilians medical staff
and medical equipment another sign that
they're aware that this will be a
contentious raid and that the
international response may once again
place them under the spotlight yeah
villain marks reporting from occupied
East Jerusalem there thank you very much
villan